# Magic Ate

Magic Ate is an application inspired by the classic toy Magic 8 Ball, aimed at reducing problems of overchoice and indecision when it comes to choosing a restaurant at which to eat. This paper first gives an overview of various reasons as to why decision-making remains a relevant problem in our modern society. Psychological studies show that overchoice affects decisions across multiple generations. This problem is particularly pronounced when it comes the younger generations. A short history of overchoice reveals that the problem indecision comes from information overload. When people feel unsure or perhaps feel that they lack necessary information, decisions can become paralyzing. Overchoice problems, in turn, relate to long-standing psychological concepts such as cognitive dissonance. Psychologists argue that people constantly have the deal with inconsistency in their ideas. Whenever details seem not to match up, or when one’s values are challenged by new information, a person must convince themselves of the way to stay consistent internally in order to reduce dissonance. Leading scholars posit that this need to keep dissonance at a minimum drives the everyday decision-making process. In many ways, our decisions are not based on long-held values but rather on the situation. It is possible to convince ourselves in and out of our choices. What’s needed to solve indecision and overchoice, then, is not a “one-size-fits-all” approach to decisions but rather a smaller, neutral, enabler of choice. This project attempts to fit within this gap to solve this very specific problem of indecision. By utilizing modern conveniences such as mobile devices, this project aims to provide users with the ability to make their own decisions more quickly. Recent innovations in programming, such as Node.js and React Native, have made cross-platform reach increasingly practical, which means more and more people are able to benefit from the same resources no matter what tech brands they use. This is further helped by dominant and commonly used architecture on the internet which enables easy and near-instant communication online. The results is that we have the capability and the opportunity to create a convenient, accessible, and beneficial solution for our problems. Magic Ate focuses on the food side of indecision. This application is a randomizer that utilizes Yelp Fusion API to obtain a list of local restaurants and select one at random for the user. Using React Native, this app will be both mobile and web friendly as well as iOS and Android compatible to increase accessibility. Custom filters will allow users to further refine their results while still receiving a random restaurant within their parameters.   The goal is to enable the decision-making of users by simplifying food choices. Rather than having to choose one from dozens of options, Magic Ate’s pre-selection of local restaurants reduces the problem to a simple yes-no question -- as in “yes to this restaurant, or no to this restaurant?” This preserves user choice because, in the end, the choice is still up to the user. They still must decide whether the selected choice is preferable to them. In order to best deliver this kind of neutral assistance, this application borrows from the Magic 8 Ball . The iconic look of the classic toy and comforting assurance of its answers are sure to put users at ease. Overall, Magic Ate provides the best modern solution to our age-old problem and it does so in a fun and engaging way
